
Architecting and Securing Browser-Native Communication: A Deep Dive into Native Messaging for Social Media Analysis


Section 1: The Native Messaging Host Architecture: A Bridge Beyond the Sandbox

The modern web browser is a fortress, meticulously designed around a security model known as the "sandbox." This model isolates web content, preventing malicious code on a webpage from accessing the user's local files, hardware, or other applications. However, certain legitimate applications, such as password managers or hardware interface tools, require a level of system access that the sandbox explicitly denies. To bridge this gap, browser vendors developed the Native Messaging API, a powerful and inherently high-risk mechanism that allows a browser extension to communicate with a native application running outside the browser's security perimeter.1 This architecture is not merely an API call; it is a deliberate, sanctioned escape from the sandbox. Understanding its components, protocols, and paradigms is the first step toward appreciating the profound security responsibilities it places upon the developer.
The entire security framework of Native Messaging rests on a foundational principle of transferred trust. The browser's core design philosophy is to trust nothing from the web. The sandbox is the enforcement of this principle. By creating the Native Messaging API, the browser establishes a controlled pathway to bypass this enforcement. The communication channel it provides—a raw, unauthenticated pipe between processes—is intentionally primitive. It contains no built-in mechanisms for encryption, authentication, or integrity verification.1 This architectural choice reveals the underlying security assumption: the browser does not secure the channel because it assumes the entities at both ends are already secure and trusted. It presumes that its own process has correctly identified and launched the legitimate native host executable as specified by the user-installed manifest, and that no other malicious process on the user's machine can interfere with the standard input and output streams of that launched process. This assumption—that the correct host is launched and the channel is clean—is the system's single most critical point of potential failure, a fact that will inform the entirety of the security analysis in this report.

1.1 Core Components: A Tripartite System

The Native Messaging architecture is composed of three distinct components working in concert to facilitate communication across the sandbox boundary. Each component has a specific role and operates under a different set of privileges and constraints.
The Browser Extension: This is the sandboxed initiator of the communication. It consists of standard web technologies (JavaScript, HTML, CSS) and runs within the strict confines of the browser's security model. The extension itself cannot access the local file system or execute arbitrary code. To use Native Messaging, its manifest file (manifest.json) must explicitly declare the "nativeMessaging" permission.3 The extension acts as the user's agent within the browser, initiating requests to the native application via specific API calls provided by the browser runtime. It is crucial to note that these API calls are not available to content scripts—the parts of an extension that run in the context of a webpage. All Native Messaging communication must be routed through the extension's background script, which serves as a secure, isolated intermediary.1
The Native Application (Host): This is a standalone, executable program installed directly on the user's operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux). Unlike the extension, the native host runs with the full privileges of the user who launched it, completely outside the browser sandbox.2 This means it can perform any action the user can, including reading and writing files, accessing hardware, making arbitrary network connections, and launching other processes.1 The host application is not installed, managed, or updated by the browser; its installation is handled by standard OS mechanisms like an MSI installer on Windows or a package manager on Linux.1 The host can be written in any programming language capable of reading from standard input (stdin) and writing to standard output (stdout), making it a highly flexible component.2
The Browser Runtime: This component acts as the trusted intermediary and process manager. When an extension initiates a Native Messaging connection, the browser runtime performs several critical tasks. First, it consults a special configuration file known as the "host manifest" to identify the location of the native host executable and verify that the requesting extension is authorized to connect to it.1 If the checks pass, the browser runtime launches the native host as a separate process. It then establishes a communication pipe, connecting the host's stdin and stdout streams to the extension's background script, enabling the two-way exchange of messages.3 The runtime is also responsible for managing the lifecycle of the host process, including its termination.1

1.2 The Communication Protocol: A Primitive but Universal Channel

The protocol for exchanging data between the extension and the native host is simple by design to ensure maximum compatibility across different programming languages and platforms. However, its simplicity comes at the cost of built-in security features. All messages, whether traveling from the extension to the host or vice-versa, adhere to the same strict format.3
The message structure is composed of two parts: a header and a payload.
32-bit Unsigned Length Prefix: The message begins with a 4-byte header that contains a single unsigned 32-bit integer. This integer specifies the exact length of the message payload in bytes. A critical implementation detail is that this length must be encoded in the native byte order (endianness) of the host system.1 Failure to correctly handle endianness is a common source of protocol errors, particularly in cross-platform applications.
JSON Payload: Immediately following the 4-byte header is the message payload itself. This payload must be a valid JSON object that has been serialized into a string and then encoded using UTF-8.1 Developers must be careful to calculate the byte length of the UTF-8 encoded string, as this can differ from the character length of the JSON string, especially when non-ASCII characters are present.3
To protect the browser from a misbehaving or malicious native host that might attempt to send an excessively large message and cause a denial-of-service condition, browsers impose a size limit on messages received from the host. In Chrome and Firefox, this limit is 1 megabyte (MB).3 Conversely, the limit on messages sent to the host from the extension is significantly larger, reflecting the assumption that the extension is less likely to be malicious. In Chrome, this limit is 64 MB, while in Microsoft Edge, it is a much more generous 4 gigabytes (GB).2
The choice of this low-level protocol has profound implications. By designing for maximum compatibility across any language that can manipulate standard I/O streams—from Python and C# to Go and Rust 2—the architecture forces developers to manage details they might otherwise ignore. For instance, a developer on Windows must explicitly set the I/O mode of the stdin and stdout streams to binary (O_BINARY). If left in the default text mode, the C runtime library will automatically replace newline characters (\n, byte 0A) with Windows-style carriage return-line feed sequences (\r\n, bytes 0D 0A), which corrupts the message length header and causes the communication to fail.3 This and other "gotchas," often poorly documented, create a steep learning curve and a high potential for brittle, insecure implementations, as developers must rediscover these pitfalls through frustrating trial and error.5

1.3 Messaging Paradigms: Persistent vs. Ephemeral Processes

The Native Messaging API provides two distinct models for communication, each with significant architectural trade-offs related to performance, state management, and resource usage. The choice between these paradigms is a critical design decision that depends entirely on the application's needs.
Connection-Based Messaging (runtime.connectNative): This model establishes a persistent, stateful communication channel. When an extension calls runtime.connectNative(), the browser launches the native host process and keeps it running. The API returns a Port object, which represents the connection. This port can be used to send multiple messages (port.postMessage()) and to listen for incoming messages via an onMessage event listener. The connection remains active, and the native host process continues to run, until the extension explicitly calls port.disconnect() or the web page or script that created the port is closed or navigated away from.1 This paradigm is ideal for applications that require an ongoing dialogue, such as a tool that needs to maintain a persistent state, perform long-running tasks, or exchange a continuous stream of data. For a social media analysis tool designed to monitor a live feed, this would be the only efficient choice.
Connectionless Messaging (runtime.sendNativeMessage): This model is designed for simple, one-off request-response interactions. Each time an extension calls runtime.sendNativeMessage(), the browser spawns a new instance of the native host process. The message is sent to the new process's stdin. The browser then waits for the host to write a single message to its stdout. This first message is treated as the response and is passed to the callback function provided in the API call. After this first response is sent, the browser terminates the host process, and any subsequent messages written by the host are ignored.1 While this approach is simpler to implement as it requires no explicit connection management, it is extremely inefficient for frequent communication. The overhead of starting a new process for every single message can introduce significant latency and consume substantial system resources, making it unsuitable for any high-throughput application.7
The architectural implications are clear. A tool intended to analyze real-time social media data, which might involve processing dozens of events per minute, would be prohibitively slow and resource-intensive if built using the connectionless sendNativeMessage paradigm. Such a use case mandates the use of connectNative, which in turn requires more sophisticated logic in both the extension and the native host to manage the connection state, handle disconnections gracefully, and process an asynchronous stream of messages.

Section 2: A Multi-Platform Implementation Guide

Successfully implementing a Native Messaging solution requires careful attention to a series of platform-specific configuration steps. The process is notoriously brittle, with small errors in file naming, path specification, or registry configuration leading to failures that can be difficult to diagnose. This section provides a consolidated, step-by-step guide to navigating the implementation maze across Windows, macOS, and Linux, covering the creation of the host manifest, its proper registration, and the development of both the browser-side extension and the native host application.
The deployment model for Native Messaging introduces a fundamental friction that developers must address. Browser extensions are designed for seamless distribution and automatic updates through centralized web stores. In stark contrast, the native host component is completely decoupled from this ecosystem. It cannot be bundled within the extension package or distributed through the web store.9 Instead, it must be delivered to the user as a separate, OS-specific installer (e.g., an .exe or .msi on Windows, a .dmg on macOS, or a .deb/.rpm on Linux). This forces the user to perform two distinct installations from potentially two different sources, creating a significant barrier to adoption. Furthermore, this separation decouples the update cycles. The extension can be updated automatically by the browser, but the native host remains static until the user manually downloads and runs a new installer. This inevitably leads to version-skewing, where an updated extension may attempt to communicate with an outdated host, resulting in compatibility failures and a broken user experience. A well-designed extension must therefore gracefully handle the absence of the native host, typically by detecting connection failures and directing the user to a download page with installation instructions.9

2.1 The Host Manifest File: The System's Keystone

The host manifest is a simple JSON file that serves as the central configuration point for the native host. It is the keystone of the entire architecture, as it tells the browser where to find the native executable and which extensions are permitted to communicate with it.1 The file must be meticulously structured, as any syntax error or incorrect value will prevent the browser from finding or launching the host.
The manifest file contains the following essential keys:
name: This is a unique string that identifies the native host, typically in a reverse domain name format (e.g., com.my_company.my_application). This name is used by the extension when calling runtime.connectNative() or runtime.sendNativeMessage(). The naming convention is strict: it can only contain lowercase alphanumeric characters, underscores, and dots. It cannot begin or end with a dot, nor can one dot immediately follow another.3 This name value is critically important as it must precisely match the manifest's filename on macOS and Linux, and the registry key name on Windows.11
description: A short, human-readable string describing the purpose of the native host.3
path: The file path to the native host executable. On macOS and Linux, this path must be absolute (e.g., /usr/local/bin/my_host_app). On Windows, the path can be relative to the directory containing the manifest file itself.3 This platform difference is a key consideration for deployment. It is also important to note that while the path can be relative in the manifest, the Windows registry entry pointing to the manifest file requires a full, absolute path, which complicates bundling the host inside the extension's directory.13
type: This key specifies the communication interface. Currently, the only supported value is "stdio", which instructs the browser to use the standard input and standard output streams for communication.4
allowed_origins / allowed_extensions: This key is the primary access control mechanism. It is an array of strings that lists the extensions permitted to connect to this host. There is a crucial incompatibility between Chrome-based browsers and Firefox here.
Chrome, Edge, and other Chromium browsers use the allowed_origins key. Each entry must be a full origin URL for the extension, in the format chrome-extension:///.3 Wildcards are not permitted.
Firefox uses the allowed_extensions key. Each entry is simply the extension's ID string as defined in its manifest.json (e.g., my_extension@example.org).1
An example host manifest for a Chrome extension might look like this:

JSON


{
  "name": "com.my_company.social_analyzer",
  "description": "Native host for social media analysis.",
  "path": "C:\\Program Files\\SocialAnalyzer\\host.exe",
  "type": "stdio",
  "allowed_origins": [
    "chrome-extension://abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz123456/"
  ]
}



2.2 Manifest Registration and Location: The Platform Maze

Once the manifest file is created, it must be placed in a specific location or registered with the system so the browser can find it. This process is the most platform-dependent part of the setup and a frequent source of developer frustration. The complexity of creating a universal installer that correctly handles these variations for different browsers and operating systems often leads developers to provide manual instructions, resulting in fragile and error-prone deployments.13
The following table consolidates the registration requirements across major platforms and browsers, providing a single, authoritative reference to mitigate common setup errors.
Platform
Browser
Manifest Location (User-Specific)
Manifest Location (System-Wide)
Registration Method
Access Control Key
Windows
Chrome
HKCU\Software\Google\Chrome\NativeMessagingHosts\
HKLM\Software\Google\Chrome\NativeMessagingHosts\
Create registry key with name matching name property. Default value is full path to manifest JSON.
allowed_origins


Firefox
HKCU\Software\Mozilla\NativeMessagingHosts\
HKLM\Software\Mozilla\NativeMessagingHosts\
Create registry key with name matching name property. Default value is full path to manifest JSON.
allowed_extensions


Edge
HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Edge\NativeMessagingHosts\
HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Edge\NativeMessagingHosts\
Create registry key with name matching name property. Default value is full path to manifest JSON.
allowed_origins
macOS
Chrome
~/Library/Application Support/Google/Chrome/NativeMessagingHosts/
/Library/Google/Chrome/NativeMessagingHosts/
Place JSON file in directory. Filename must be <name>.json.
allowed_origins


Firefox
~/Library/Application Support/Mozilla/NativeMessagingHosts/
/Library/Application Support/Mozilla/NativeMessagingHosts/
Place JSON file in directory. Filename must be <name>.json.
allowed_extensions


Edge
~/Library/Application Support/Microsoft Edge/NativeMessagingHosts/
/Library/Microsoft/Edge/NativeMessagingHosts/
Place JSON file in directory. Filename must be <name>.json.
allowed_origins
Linux
Chrome
~/.config/google-chrome/NativeMessagingHosts/
/etc/opt/chrome/native-messaging-hosts/
Place JSON file in directory. Filename must be <name>.json.
allowed_origins


Firefox
~/.mozilla/native-messaging-hosts/
/usr/lib/mozilla/native-messaging-hosts/
Place JSON file in directory. Filename must be <name>.json.
allowed_extensions


Edge
~/.config/microsoft-edge/NativeMessagingHosts/
/etc/opt/edge/native-messaging-hosts/
Place JSON file in directory. Filename must be <name>.json.
allowed_origins

On Windows, the registration process requires modifying the Windows Registry. The installer for the native application must create a new key whose name is identical to the name property in the manifest file. This key must be created under the appropriate path for the browser and installation scope (user-level at HKEY_CURRENT_USER or system-level at HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE). The default string value of this new key must be set to the full, absolute path of the host manifest JSON file.4 The distinction between HKCU and HKLM is significant in enterprise environments, where security policies may disable user-level hosts, forcing installers to require administrative privileges to register in HKLM.2
On macOS and Linux, the process is simpler and relies on the filesystem. The manifest JSON file must be placed in one of the designated directories listed in the table. The name of the JSON file itself must exactly match the name property from within the file, with a .json extension (e.g., com.my_company.social_analyzer.json).12

2.3 Building the Extension: The Browser-Side Component

The browser extension component requires two key modifications to enable Native Messaging.
Extension manifest.json: The extension's own manifest file must declare the "nativeMessaging" permission. This grants the extension access to the runtime.connectNative() and runtime.sendNativeMessage() APIs.3
JSON
{
  "name": "Social Media Analyzer",
  "version": "1.0",
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "background": {
    "service_worker": "background.js"
  },
  "permissions": [
    "nativeMessaging"
  ]
}


Background Script (background.js): As noted previously, all Native Messaging communication must originate from the background script. This script will contain the logic for connecting to the host, sending messages, and receiving responses.
For a persistent connection, the code would look like this:
JavaScript
const port = chrome.runtime.connectNative('com.my_company.social_analyzer');

port.onMessage.addListener((msg) => {
  console.log('Received message from native host:', msg);
});

port.onDisconnect.addListener(() => {
  console.log('Disconnected from native host.');
  // Check chrome.runtime.lastError for the reason.
  if (chrome.runtime.lastError) {
    console.error('Disconnect reason:', chrome.runtime.lastError.message);
  }
});

// Example of sending a message
port.postMessage({ command: "analyze_page", url: "https://example.com" });

3
For a single, connectionless message, the code is simpler:
JavaScript
chrome.runtime.sendNativeMessage(
  'com.my_company.social_analyzer',
  { command: "get_status" },
  (response) => {
    if (chrome.runtime.lastError) {
      console.error('Error:', chrome.runtime.lastError.message);
    } else {
      console.log('Received response from native host:', response);
    }
  }
);

3

2.4 Developing the Native Host Application: Handling the Protocol

The native host application's core responsibility is to correctly implement the stdio-based communication protocol. The following is a conceptual example in Python, demonstrating the essential logic for reading a message from the browser and sending a response.

Python


import sys
import json
import struct

# On Windows, must set stdin and stdout to binary mode.
if sys.platform == "win32":
    import os, msvcrt
    msvcrt.setmode(sys.stdin.fileno(), os.O_BINARY)
    msvcrt.setmode(sys.stdout.fileno(), os.O_BINARY)

# Function to read a message from stdin
def get_message():
    raw_length = sys.stdin.buffer.read(4)
    if len(raw_length) == 0:
        sys.exit(0)
    message_length = struct.unpack('@I', raw_length)
    message = sys.stdin.buffer.read(message_length).decode('utf-8')
    return json.loads(message)

# Function to encode and send a message to stdout
def send_message(message_content):
    encoded_content = json.dumps(message_content).encode('utf-8')
    encoded_length = struct.pack('@I', len(encoded_content))
    sys.stdout.buffer.write(encoded_length)
    sys.stdout.buffer.write(encoded_content)
    sys.stdout.buffer.flush()

# Main loop to process messages
while True:
    received_message = get_message()
    
    # Process the message (e.g., perform analysis)
    response_message = { "status": "success", "original_command": received_message.get("command") }
    
    send_message(response_message)


This example highlights the critical steps: setting binary mode on Windows, reading the 4-byte length header, unpacking it according to the system's native byte order (@I), reading the exact number of bytes for the payload, decoding and parsing the JSON, and then performing the reverse process to send a response.

2.5 Troubleshooting and Debugging: A Systematic Approach

Given the many potential points of failure, a systematic approach to debugging is essential.
"Specified native messaging host not found": This is the most common error.
Verify the name in the extension's JavaScript call exactly matches the name in the host manifest.
On Windows, use regedit to confirm the registry key exists in the correct location and its default value points to the correct manifest file path.
On macOS/Linux, confirm the manifest file is in the correct directory and its filename is <name>.json.
Validate the manifest's JSON syntax using an online linter.3
"Access to the specified native messaging host is forbidden": The extension's ID is not listed in the allowed_origins (Chrome) or allowed_extensions (Firefox) array in the host manifest.3
"Native host has exited": This indicates the host process terminated unexpectedly. This is almost always due to a protocol error in the native host code (e.g., crashing while parsing a message, incorrect length calculation) or an unhandled exception.3
Enable Browser Logging: To see detailed error messages and any output the native host writes to its standard error (stderr) stream, launch the browser from a command line.
On Windows, use the --enable-logging flag.3
On macOS and Linux, simply launch the browser executable from a terminal, and all logs will be printed directly to the console.6 This is the most effective way to debug protocol implementation issues in the native host.

Section 3: The Native Messaging Threat Model: A Security-First Analysis

The Native Messaging API is an architectural choice to deliberately sacrifice the browser's primary security guarantee—the sandbox—in exchange for functionality. This decision creates a direct and high-privilege bridge from the relatively safe environment of the browser to the host operating system. Consequently, any application employing this technology must be designed with a security-first mindset, as a vulnerability in any part of the chain—the extension, the browser's implementation, or the native host—can lead to a full compromise of the user's machine. The security model is not one of layered defense but of a single, fragile trust boundary.
The entire system operates on a principle of ambient authority. The native host executes with the complete set of permissions granted to the logged-in user. The browser extension, once granted access via the manifest file, can invoke this authority simply by knowing the host's registered name string.3 The connection is all-or-nothing; there is no concept of granular permissions or the principle of least privilege. An extension cannot, for example, request permission to only read files but not write them. Once the communication channel is open, the extension can request any action the host is programmed to perform. This creates a dangerous attack surface, where a vulnerability in a seemingly benign extension could be exploited to send malicious commands to a highly privileged native host, such as a password manager or system utility, if both are accessible to the compromised extension.

3.1 The Inherent Risk: The Deliberate Sandbox Escape

The fundamental risk of Native Messaging cannot be overstated: it is a tool designed explicitly to execute code outside the sandbox with user-level privileges.2 When an extension sends a message to a native host, it is not merely passing data; it is issuing a command to a privileged process. A bug in the native host's code that can be triggered by a malformed message—such as a buffer overflow, a path traversal vulnerability, or a command injection flaw—is not a sandboxed browser vulnerability. It is a direct, exploitable vulnerability on the host operating system, potentially allowing an attacker to read sensitive files, install malware, or take complete control of the user's account. The developer of the native host assumes full responsibility for writing secure, robust code that can safely handle untrusted input from the browser extension.

3.2 Host Impersonation and Hijacking: The Primary Vulnerability

The most well-documented and architecturally significant vulnerability in the Native Messaging ecosystem is host impersonation. The mechanism that the browser uses to locate a native host—by looking for a manifest file in a specific directory or a key in the registry—can be subverted by a malicious application.15
The attack vector is straightforward:
A piece of malware or a malicious application is executed on the user's machine.
The malware creates its own native host manifest file in the user-specific location (e.g., ~/.config/google-chrome/NativeMessagingHosts/ on Linux).
This malicious manifest claims the exact same name as a legitimate, trusted application (e.g., com.my_password_manager.host). However, the path property in this manifest points to the malware's own executable.
When the legitimate password manager extension tries to connect to its host by calling runtime.connectNative('com.my_password_manager.host'), the browser begins its search for the manifest.
Critically, browsers are programmed to check user-specific locations before system-wide locations. The browser finds the malicious manifest in the user's profile directory first and stops searching.15
The browser, believing it has found the correct manifest, launches the malicious executable specified in the path, and pipes the extension's sensitive data (e.g., requests to fill a password) directly to the attacker's application.
This vulnerability was reported to the Chromium project, which famously classified it as "Won't Fix".15 The rationale behind this decision is rooted in a strict definition of the browser's threat model. From the Chromium team's perspective, if an attacker has already executed code on the user's machine with sufficient privileges to write files to the user's profile directory, the attacker has already won. At that point, the user's machine is considered fully compromised, and securing a browser feature like Native Messaging is a moot point.
This "Won't Fix" stance has profound consequences. It creates a permanent and unresolvable trust issue in the architecture, shifting the entire burden of security from the browser to the developer of the native host and extension. Since the browser provides no mechanism to cryptographically verify the identity or integrity of the host executable it launches, any robust security measures must be implemented from scratch by the developer. This would require a complex, custom cryptographic protocol where the extension verifies the signature of the host executable before sending data, and the host verifies the identity of the connecting extension. Such an undertaking requires significant security expertise and is far beyond the scope of what is described in the standard documentation.16 As a result, the path of least resistance for most developers is to ignore this threat, which effectively guarantees that the vast majority of Native Messaging implementations in the wild are vulnerable to this simple hijacking attack by any other malware present on the user's system.

3.3 Lack of Channel Integrity: Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) Attacks

The communication channel itself—the stdin/stdout pipe—lacks any form of authentication, encryption, or integrity checking. The extension has no way to be certain it is talking to the legitimate host, and the host has no way to be certain it is talking to the legitimate extension process.17 While direct interception of stdio streams between processes is difficult, it is not impossible for a sufficiently privileged attacker on the same machine.
A 2024 vulnerability report filed against Chromium demonstrated a practical, not just theoretical, man-in-the-middle attack on Linux and macOS. The proof-of-concept showed that a malicious process could use fork and execv system calls to launch both the legitimate browser and the legitimate native host in a controlled environment, allowing the malicious process to intercept, read, and modify all data passing through the stdin and stdout pipes.18 This completely bypasses any security checks the native host might perform, such as verifying its parent process is Chrome, because from the host's perspective, it was launched by a legitimate Chrome process. This vulnerability underscores that the channel itself is not secure and cannot be trusted without an end-to-end cryptographic layer implemented by the application developer.

3.4 Supply Chain and Executable Integrity

Another significant risk lies in the integrity of the native host executable itself. The host manifest simply contains a file path. The browser performs no checks to ensure that the file at that path is the authentic, untampered executable provided by the developer. An attacker who gains write access to the location of the native host could replace it with a malicious version. When the user's browser next launches the host, it will execute the malicious code with user privileges.
A potential mitigation for this is for the extension to verify the integrity of the host executable before communicating with it. The extension could bundle a cryptographic hash (e.g., SHA-256) of the known-good executable. Before sending any sensitive data, it could ask the host for its own file path, read the executable file from disk, compute its hash, and compare it to the stored value. However, this approach introduces a severe maintenance problem: every time the native host is updated, the extension must also be updated with the new hash, requiring a tightly synchronized release process that is difficult to manage given the decoupled deployment model.16

3.5 Browser-Level and Implementation Flaws

Even if the native host is secure and correctly registered, vulnerabilities can exist in the browser's implementation of the Native Messaging API or in the extension's logic for handling messages.
Browser Implementation Bugs: Security advisories have documented critical flaws in the browsers themselves. For example, Mozilla issued a security advisory for a use-after-free memory corruption vulnerability in Firefox's Native Messaging API on Windows, which could lead to crashes and potentially arbitrary code execution.19 Similarly, a vulnerability was found in Chrome where a compromised renderer process could send a crafted IPC message to the browser process, faking its extension ID. This allowed a malicious extension to bypass the allowed_origins check and connect to a native host it was not authorized to access.20
Extension Logic Flaws (Case Study: Cisco WebEx): A high-profile vulnerability in the Cisco WebEx Chrome extension provided a stark example of how flaws in the extension's logic can be catastrophic. The extension was designed to receive a "magic pattern" from a webpage to initiate a meeting. A researcher discovered that the extension did not validate the source of the message or sanitize its contents before passing it to the privileged native host. This allowed a malicious website to craft a message that, when passed to the native host, would execute arbitrary commands on the user's computer, leading to a full remote code execution vulnerability through a simple "drive-by" attack.21 This case study demonstrates that the entire communication chain, from the webpage to the content script, to the background script, and finally to the native host, is a continuous attack surface. A failure to validate data at any step can compromise the entire system.22

Section 4: The Social Media Spam Ecosystem

To construct a tool for analyzing social media spam, it is first necessary to understand the complex and evolving ecosystem in which it operates. Modern social media spam is far more sophisticated than the unsolicited commercial emails of the past. It is a multifaceted problem encompassing a wide range of content, behaviors, and motivations, from simple commercial promotion to coordinated malicious campaigns designed to defraud users, distribute malware, or manipulate public opinion.23 Spammers leverage automation, social engineering, and platform features to exploit user attention and trust at a massive scale.26
The defining characteristic of this modern ecosystem is its relentless effort to mimic authentic human behavior. Early forms of spam were easily identifiable due to their crude, generic nature.24 As platforms deployed simple keyword and link-based filters, spammers were forced to adapt. This led to the rise of more sophisticated techniques involving the use of bot accounts with partially filled profiles, the hijacking of legitimate user accounts to inherit their history and trust, and even the use of AI to generate contextually plausible comments.26 Consequently, detecting spam is no longer a simple matter of content analysis. It now requires a holistic approach that incorporates behavioral analysis (posting frequency, engagement patterns), network analysis (connections between accounts), and temporal analysis (account age, sudden changes in activity).

4.1 A Modern Definition of Spam

On social media platforms, spam can be defined as unsolicited, repetitive, irrelevant, or deceptive content distributed at scale to exploit user attention for commercial, malicious, or ideological purposes. This definition encompasses several key characteristics:
Unsolicited: The content is not requested by the recipient and often intrudes upon their experience.29
Repetitive: The same or very similar messages are posted across multiple threads, profiles, or platforms to maximize reach.23
Deceptive: The content often misleads users about its true purpose, using clickbait, impersonation, or social engineering to elicit a response.25
Exploitative: The ultimate goal is to extract value from the user's attention, whether through financial gain (scams, affiliate links), data theft (phishing), system compromise (malware), or influencing their opinions (propaganda).27

4.2 A Taxonomy of Social Spam

Social media spam is not a monolithic entity. It manifests in numerous forms, each with distinct characteristics and indicators. A successful analysis tool must be able to differentiate between these types to accurately assess the threat. The following table provides a structured taxonomy of common spam categories.
Spam Type
Description
Common Examples
Key Indicators for Detection
Comment Spam
Posting irrelevant, generic, or promotional comments on unrelated content to gain visibility or drive traffic.
"Great post!", "Follow me!", "DM for collab!", "Make $5,000 a week from home!" [29, 33]
Generic, non-contextual language; presence of links (especially shortened URLs); emojis; posted by accounts with no profile picture or few followers.
Hashtag Hijacking
Using popular or trending hashtags on content that is completely unrelated to the hashtag's topic.
A post selling cryptocurrency using a trending hashtag about a celebrity or news event. [27, 34]
Mismatch between post content and hashtag topic; high volume of posts from a single account using many different trending hashtags.
Fake Accounts / Bots
Automated or semi-automated accounts created to artificially inflate follower counts, likes, or comments, or to distribute spam content at scale.
An account with a generic name, no profile picture, thousands of followings but few followers, and a feed of repetitive promotional content. [24, 35]
Recent account creation date; no profile picture/bio; high following-to-follower ratio; repetitive or nonsensical comments; sudden spikes in activity. [28]
Phishing & Scams
Content designed to trick users into revealing sensitive information (credentials, financial data) or sending money.
Fake giveaway posts requiring users to click a link and enter their login details; DMs pretending to be from a bank asking for account verification. [27, 31]
Sense of urgency ("Act now!"); "too good to be true" offers; suspicious URLs; poor grammar and spelling; requests for personal information. [25, 36]
Impersonation
Accounts that mimic legitimate brands, celebrities, or customer support services to deceive users.
A fake customer support account replying to a user's complaint, asking them to DM their password or click a "support link." [27, 37]
Subtle misspellings in the username (e.g., @GoogIeSupport with a capital 'i'); slightly different profile picture; low follower count compared to the real account.
Malicious Links
URLs shared in posts, comments, or direct messages that lead to websites hosting malware, ransomware, or other malicious software.
"Check out this hilarious video!" with a link that initiates a malware download. [24, 34]
Use of URL shorteners to obscure the final destination; links to unfamiliar or non-reputable domains; messages that create curiosity or urgency to click.
Excessive Self-Promotion
Repeatedly posting links to a personal blog, product, or service without adding value to the conversation or community.
A user who joins a Facebook group about gardening and immediately posts ten different links to their own blog about car repair. [30]
High frequency of posting links to the same domain; lack of genuine interaction with other users; content is purely promotional.

This taxonomy reveals a crucial point for any detection effort: the spam ecosystem has evolved into a full-fledged, service-based economy. It is not solely the domain of individual actors. There are entire "bot farms" and underground services that sell fake followers, automated engagement, and spam distribution as a commodity.27 This industrialization means that spam attacks are often not random, isolated events. Instead, they are frequently coordinated campaigns. A large number of seemingly unrelated accounts may suddenly post similar comments, use the same URL shortener, or become active at the same time. This coordinated behavior is a powerful signal of inauthenticity. Therefore, an effective analysis tool should not only scrutinize individual accounts or messages but also look for these larger patterns of correlated activity across the network.

4.3 The Spammer's Arsenal: Tools and Techniques

To execute these various types of spam, attackers employ a range of technological and psychological techniques designed to maximize reach and evade detection.
Automation and Bots: The cornerstone of modern spamming is automation. Spammers use scripts and botnets—networks of compromised computers or fake accounts—to perform actions at a scale and speed impossible for a human. These bots can automatically create accounts, scrape user data, post comments, send direct messages, and like or follow other accounts.26 Advanced bots use AI and machine learning to generate more convincing, less repetitive content, making them harder to distinguish from real users.26
Social Engineering: Many spam campaigns rely on manipulating human psychology rather than exploiting technical vulnerabilities. Spammers craft messages that appeal to common emotional triggers such as greed ("You've won a free iPhone!"), fear ("Your account has been compromised, click here to secure it!"), urgency ("This offer expires in one hour!"), or authority ("This is a message from your bank.").25 By creating a sense of panic or excitement, they bypass a user's rational judgment and trick them into clicking malicious links or divulging sensitive information.
Cloaking and Evasion Techniques: To circumvent the automated spam filters used by social media platforms, spammers employ various evasion tactics. This can include "cloaking," where different content is shown to the platform's web crawlers than to actual users.38 Another common technique is to use hidden or non-standard characters to break up keywords that filters might block (e.g., writing "l0@n" instead of "loan").31 The use of URL shorteners is also a standard practice to hide the true destination of a malicious link.
Account Hijacking and Impersonation: One of the most effective techniques is to compromise and take over the account of a legitimate user. By operating from a hijacked account, the spammer inherits the user's established network of friends and followers, along with their history of authentic activity. Messages sent from such an account are far more likely to be trusted by recipients, making this a potent vector for spreading phishing links and malware.26 Impersonation, where a new account is created to look like a trusted entity, is a similar technique that leverages a trusted brand's reputation.27

Section 5: Consequences, Detection, and Ethical Boundaries

The proliferation of spam on social media is not a victimless activity. It imposes significant costs on users, brands, and the platforms themselves, degrading the quality of online discourse and creating a fertile ground for malicious activity. In response, platforms have invested heavily in a technological arms race against spammers, deploying sophisticated detection systems. For any developer building a tool that interacts with these platforms, understanding this landscape is crucial, as it defines the technical, legal, and ethical boundaries within which such a project must operate.
The core of this conflict is a massive data problem. The sheer volume and velocity of content generated on major social platforms make manual moderation impossible. Consequently, the fight against spam has become a domain dominated by machine learning and artificial intelligence.39 Platforms possess an insurmountable advantage in this domain due to their exclusive access to immense, proprietary datasets containing billions of user interactions, content reports, and behavioral signals. These datasets are the fuel for training highly accurate detection models. An independent developer or researcher, lacking access to this data, must rely on smaller public datasets or the painstaking process of manual labeling. This data asymmetry means that a third-party tool is unlikely to ever match the performance of a platform's internal systems. Its value lies not in outperforming the platform, but in providing a different lens for analysis or in learning the underlying techniques.

5.1 The Impact of Spam: More Than a Nuisance

The consequences of unchecked spam extend far beyond simple user annoyance.
Impact on Users: The most direct harm is financial loss and data theft resulting from phishing attacks and scams.37 Users can also suffer from malware infections contracted by clicking malicious links, leading to system compromise and further data breaches. Beyond financial and technical harm, spam contributes to a degraded user experience, making it difficult to find genuine content and fostering a sense of distrust.35 In its more aggressive forms, such as harassment or the spread of hate speech, spam can have severe mental health consequences, contributing to the broader problems of cyberbullying and online toxicity.24
Impact on Brands and Businesses: For organizations using social media for marketing and customer engagement, spam poses a significant threat to their reputation and bottom line. Spam comments on a brand's posts can drown out legitimate customer inquiries and create an impression of a poorly managed, unsafe community, which can deter potential customers.43 A survey highlighted in the Brands at Risk report found that 90% of consumers believe harmful content on a brand's page negatively impacts its reputation.43 Furthermore, the need to constantly monitor and remove spam consumes valuable time and resources from social media management teams, representing a direct operational cost.35
Impact on Platforms: For the social media platforms themselves, spam erodes the core value of their service: authentic human connection. It degrades the user experience, leading to decreased engagement and user churn. It consumes vast amounts of network bandwidth and storage resources, and the cost of developing and maintaining anti-spam systems is substantial.41 Widespread spam can also damage a platform's credibility, making it a less attractive venue for advertisers and content creators.

5.2 Platform Countermeasures: The Technological Arms Race

Social media platforms are not passive victims; they actively combat spam using a multi-layered strategy that combines automated detection, policy enforcement, and user-driven reporting.
Automated Detection: The primary line of defense is automated systems powered by machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL). These systems analyze a multitude of signals to classify content and accounts as spam or legitimate.
Content-based features: Analyzing the text of messages for common spam phrases, suspicious links, or an overabundance of hashtags.
Behavioral features: Monitoring user activity, such as the rate of posting, the number of identical messages sent, or patterns of following and liking.
Network features: Analyzing the social graph to identify clusters of fake accounts that are highly interconnected but have few connections to the wider, authentic user base.40
ML/DL Models: Platforms employ a range of algorithms, from traditional models like Naïve Bayes and Random Forest to more advanced deep learning architectures like Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for text analysis and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks for sequential behavioral data.39 These models are continuously retrained on new data to adapt to evolving spam tactics.
Content Moderation and Policy: Technology is backed by comprehensive community standards and terms of service. For example, Meta's Spam policy explicitly prohibits behaviors like artificially increasing viewership, selling platform assets, cloaking links to deceive users, and "like-gating" (requiring a like or share to access content).38 These policies provide the justification for removing content and suspending accounts identified by the automated systems or by human moderators.
User Reporting: Platforms heavily rely on their user base to act as a distributed network of sensors. The "report spam" functionality is a critical tool that not only helps remove individual pieces of spam but also provides invaluable labeled training data for the machine learning models, creating a feedback loop that improves the accuracy of the automated systems over time.34

5.3 Legal and Policy Implications: The Rules of the Road

For a developer creating a tool that interacts with social media platforms, the most significant constraints are not technical, but legal and ethical. The enforcement of platform policies is the single greatest barrier to any project involving automation. A "successful" tool is not one that is merely functional, but one that is designed to be "well-behaved" enough to avoid triggering a platform's defenses and having its associated accounts suspended.
Platform Terms of Service (ToS): Every major social media platform has a ToS that users agree to upon creating an account. These legal documents almost universally prohibit activities central to large-scale data analysis or interaction, including:
Automated Access: Using any automated means (bots, scripts, scrapers) to access the platform's services without explicit permission via an official API.
Data Scraping: Collecting user data from the platform in bulk.
Creating Fake Accounts: Operating accounts that are not associated with a real person or that are created for deceptive purposes.
Violation of the ToS is a breach of contract and gives the platform the right to take action, which typically includes rate-limiting the account, forcing CAPTCHA challenges, temporarily suspending the account, or, most commonly, issuing a permanent ban.
Relevant Legislation: While most anti-spam legislation, such as the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 in the United States, is primarily focused on commercial email, its principles are relevant.45 The act establishes legal frameworks against unsolicited, deceptive, and fraudulent electronic messages. While direct application to social media comments may be limited, activities like sending unsolicited promotional direct messages or using deceptive tactics for commercial gain could fall under the purview of consumer protection laws enforced by bodies like the Federal Trade Commission (FTC).
Ethical Red Lines: Beyond the legal and policy constraints, there are clear ethical lines that must not be crossed. The user's stated goal of "confirming spamming" is ambiguous. If interpreted as building a tool to perform spamming actions (e.g., automated posting of comments), this is unequivocally unethical. Such a tool would contribute directly to the degradation of the online environment, harass users, and violate platform rules, even if created for "educational purposes." The knowledge of how to build automated tools comes with a profound responsibility to use them for constructive, not destructive, ends.

Section 6: Synthesis and Recommendations for Responsible Development

The exploration of Native Messaging as a technology for interacting with social media platforms reveals a powerful but perilous landscape. The architecture provides an unparalleled level of system access, but its security model is inherently weak, placing an enormous burden of responsibility on the developer. When applied to the domain of social media, this technical risk is compounded by a complex ecosystem of platform policies, automated defenses, and ethical considerations. A successful educational project in this space is not one that simply achieves technical functionality, but one that navigates these challenges with a clear-eyed understanding of the risks and a steadfast commitment to responsible design.

6.1 A Responsible Use Case: From "Confirming" to "Analyzing"

The user's initial query—to build a tool to "confirm spamming"—must be reframed to align with ethical and practical constraints. A tool designed to perpetrate spam by automatically posting content is a direct violation of every platform's Terms of Service and contributes to the very problem it purports to study. Such a project would be quickly detected and its associated accounts banned, offering little educational value beyond a lesson in policy enforcement.
A far more responsible and intellectually rewarding approach is to pivot the project's goal from active participation to passive analysis. The objective should be to build a tool for the ethical detection and analysis of spam, leveraging the power of Native Messaging to enhance a user's ability to understand and navigate the social media environment safely.
Potential responsible project ideas include:
A Real-Time Comment Analyzer: An extension that, while a user is browsing a social media post, uses Native Messaging to pass the comments to a local analysis engine. The native host could apply the rules and heuristics derived from the spam taxonomy (Section 4.2) to score each comment for spam-like characteristics. The extension could then overlay this information on the webpage, highlighting potentially malicious or low-quality comments for the user. This provides direct value to the user without violating ToS by posting content.
A Follower Audit Tool: An extension that helps a user analyze their own list of followers. It could pass follower data to a native host that checks for common bot indicators (e.g., no profile picture, default name, high following-to-follower ratio). This empowers users to clean up their own social graph and understand the authenticity of their audience.
A Data Collection Framework for Research: For academic purposes, a tool could be designed to ethically collect public, non-personally identifiable data about spam campaigns. This would require careful design to respect platform rate limits and ToS, focusing on passive observation rather than active interaction.

6.2 Secure by Design: Mitigating Native Messaging Risks

Given the significant security vulnerabilities detailed in Section 3, any Native Messaging application must be built according to a "secure by design" philosophy. The following principles are not optional; they are essential for mitigating the risk of creating a tool that could be turned against the user.
Rigorous Input Validation: The native host must treat all data received from the extension via stdin as fundamentally untrusted. It must never assume the JSON is well-formed or that its contents are benign. The host should use a robust JSON parsing library and validate the structure, data types, and values of every incoming message before processing it. Any message that does not conform to the expected format should be immediately discarded, and the host should log the error and potentially terminate the connection.
Adherence to the Principle of Least Privilege: The native host application should be designed to do the absolute minimum necessary to fulfill its function. If its purpose is to analyze text, it should not contain code paths for writing files, modifying system settings, or making arbitrary network requests. By strictly limiting the host's capabilities, the potential damage from a compromise is significantly reduced.
Fail-Safe Defaults and Graceful Exits: The native host must be programmed to handle errors robustly. Any unexpected input, protocol error, or internal exception should cause the host to exit cleanly and safely. It should never fail in a state that could leave the system vulnerable. Writing detailed error messages to stderr is crucial for debugging these failure modes.
Consider Advanced Self-Verification: For applications handling highly sensitive data, developers should consider implementing a custom verification layer on top of the Native Messaging protocol. This could involve the native host being digitally signed, and the browser extension containing the public key needed to verify that signature before sending any data. While complex to implement, this is one of the only robust defenses against the host impersonation and hijacking vulnerabilities described previously.16

6.3 Final Recommendations: A Path Forward

The Native Messaging API is a testament to the trade-offs inherent in software architecture—a powerful feature that comes at the cost of the browser's most fundamental security promise. Its security model, which relies on the integrity of the local filesystem and shifts the burden of verification entirely to the developer, makes it a tool that must be wielded with extreme caution.
For the educational goal of understanding this technology in the context of social media, the following path is recommended:
Prioritize Passive Analysis: Focus the project on analyzing content that is already visible to the user. Avoid any form of automated posting, liking, following, or direct messaging. This is the single most important step to remaining within the bounds of platform Terms of Service and ethical conduct.
Embrace the Security Challenge: Treat the inherent weaknesses of Native Messaging not as an inconvenience, but as a core part of the learning exercise. Implement the secure design principles outlined above. Assume that an attacker will try to subvert the communication channel and build defenses accordingly.
Start Small and Local: Begin by building a simple native host that processes local data passed from the extension. Master the intricacies of the communication protocol—byte order, UTF-8 encoding, stdio handling—before attempting to integrate complex social media analysis logic.
Respect the Ecosystem: The ultimate goal of any educational project should be to build tools and knowledge that enhance, rather than degrade, the digital commons. The skills learned in building a spam analysis tool are valuable. They come with the corresponding responsibility to apply them ethically, to protect users, and to foster a healthier online environment.
Nguồn trích dẫn
Native messaging - Mozilla - MDN Web Docs, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Native_messaging
Web-to-App Communication: The Native Messaging API – text/plain, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://textslashplain.com/2020/09/04/web-to-app-communication-the-native-messaging-api/
Native messaging - Chrome for Developers, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/native-messaging
Native messaging - Microsoft Edge Developer documentation ..., truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/extensions/developer-guide/native-messaging
What is Native Messaging between applications and how does it work? - Stack Overflow, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25169384/what-is-native-messaging-between-applications-and-how-does-it-work
Native Messaging | Apps - Chrome for Developers, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://developer.chrome.com/docs/apps/nativeMessaging
Pushing Native Messaging to the limits! - C vs Rust - DEV Community, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://dev.to/totally_chase/pushing-native-messaging-to-the-limits-c-vs-rust-4nad
C# native host with Chrome Native Messaging - Stack Overflow, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://stackoverflow.com/questions/30880709/c-sharp-native-host-with-chrome-native-messaging
Chrome Native Messaging - Host App should be packed with extension? - Stack Overflow, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://stackoverflow.com/questions/73515814/chrome-native-messaging-host-app-should-be-packed-with-extension
Native Messaging - Google Chrome, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://sunnyzhou-1024.github.io/chrome-extension-docs/apps/nativeMessaging.html
Manifest for native messaging host not found - Stack Overflow, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://stackoverflow.com/questions/56361604/manifest-for-native-messaging-host-not-found
Native Messaging Host Protocol for Browser Extensions - GitHub, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://github.com/simov/native-messaging
Problem with relative path to native messaging host manifest on Windows - Google Groups, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/chromium-extensions/c/Y5RckbPVnr8
Native manifests - Mozilla - MDN Web Docs, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Native_manifests
vulnerability in Native Messaging of Chrome [40080979] - Chromium Issue, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://issues.chromium.org/40080979
Securing Chrome Native Message host - Stack Overflow, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29500075/securing-chrome-native-message-host
Implement Native Messaging for browser extensions · Issue #287 · keepassxreboot/keepassxc - GitHub, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://github.com/keepassxreboot/keepassxc/issues/287
NMH binaries can be manipulated through Chrome process impersonation [334764458] - Chromium Issue, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://issues.chromium.org/334764458
Security Vulnerabilities fixed in Thunderbird 144 — Mozilla, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/security/advisories/mfsa2025-84/
extensions can bypass native messaging origin whitelisting [40084236] - Chromium Issue, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://issues.chromium.org/40084236
The WebEx Chrome Extension Vulnerability and the Power of Virtual Patching, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.catonetworks.com/blog/the-webex-chrome-extension-vulnerability-and-the-power-of-virtual-patching/
Universal Code Execution by Chaining Messages in Browser Extensions, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://spaceraccoon.dev/universal-code-execution-browser-extensions/
meetedgar.com, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://meetedgar.com/social-media-terms/spamming#:~:text=Spamming%20on%20social%20media%20means,promote%20something%20or%20get%20attention.
Social spam - Wikipedia, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_spam
What Does Spam Mean? | Guide to Spam Across Platforms - Xcitium, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.xcitium.com/blog/web-security/what-does-spam-mean/
Technology and Techniques: Spammers (Part 1 of 2) - Abusix, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://abusix.com/blog/technology-and-techniques-spammers-part-1-of-2/
Social Media Spamming - Klever Wallet, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://klever.io/blog/social-media-spamming/
Social Media Bots: What They Are and How to Protect Your Brand - Spider AF, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://spideraf.com/es/articles/social-media-bots-what-they-are-and-how-to-protect-your-brand
What is Social Media Spamming? - MeetEdgar, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://meetedgar.com/social-media-terms/spamming
What is Spamming? | Later Social Media Glossary, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://later.com/social-media-glossary/spamming/
9 Tricks Spammers Use to Breach Systems - Fortified Health, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://fortifiedhealthsecurity.com/blog/9-tricks-spammers-use-to-compromise-your-system/
What is Spam? Types, Risks, and How to Stay Spam-Free | Huntress, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.huntress.com/cybersecurity-101/topic/what-is-spam
Working Methods To Prevent Social Media Spam - PowerDMARC, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://powerdmarc.com/prevent-social-media-spams/
Spammers and how they are affecting social media - Massey Online ..., truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://masseyonline.com.au/news/spammers-and-how-they-are-affecting-social-media/
Detecting Social Media Scams: How Marketers Can Protect Their Brands and Customers, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.techwyse.com/blog/social-media-marketing/detecting-social-media-scams-how-marketers-can-protect-their-brands-and-customers
The Bot Problem on Social Media | EvolveDash, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://evolvedash.com/blog/the-bot-problem-on-social-media/
Spam | Transparency Center, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://transparency.meta.com/policies/community-standards/spam/
Countering Social Media Cybercrime Using Deep Learning: Instagram Fake Accounts Detection - MDPI, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.mdpi.com/1999-5903/16/10/367
Spam filtering on Social Media Using MachineLearning - ijariie.com, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://ijariie.com/AdminUploadPdf/Spam_filtering_on_social_media_using_machine_learning_ijariie21244.pdf
Policy Brief: The Challenge of Spam - Internet Society, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.internetsociety.org/policybriefs/spam/
Social Media | Pros, Cons, Debate, Arguments, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, & Internet Addiction | Britannica, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.britannica.com/procon/social-media-debate
The High Tide Of Spam On Social Media | Resolver, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.resolver.com/blog/navigating-the-surge-of-spam-on-social-media/
A Combined Text-Based and Metadata-Based Deep-Learning Framework for the Detection of Spam Accounts on the Social Media Platform Twitter - MDPI, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.mdpi.com/2227-9717/10/3/439
CAN-SPAM - Federal Communications Commission, truy cập vào tháng 11 3, 2025, https://www.fcc.gov/general/can-spam
